# Problem Description

This project applies the the process for developing a Machine Learning (ML) Model described in the chaper "End-to-End Machine Learning Project"[^1] with the goal of creating a ML model to predict genres and popularity of tracks from Spotify based on other features defined for each of these songs.

The core idea is to produce two pipelines in parallel, working independant of each other. One pipeline should end with a model to be used to predict the popularity of songs based on the given features, and the other to try and predict the genre of a given song. As such, this project will work both with regression and classification. It must be stated that in order for this process to work, whether it be prediction of a quantity or category, there must be some correlation/distinction between the features. Thus, the underlying assumption for the project, and decision to use the dataset, is that the audiofeatures generated by spotify to describe their songs are connected in some way - and our goal is find an algorithm that can use that connection for prediction, if it is there. 

Since the dataset includes the target values of our predictions, these features will be seperated from the rest of the dataset, and will be used as the output ($\mathbf{y_{true}}$) labels/values in training the model. Hence, the training strategy will be supervised learning, for both the classification and regression problem, as the expected values are known.

The "End-to-End" process and supervised learning concepts will be further explained in the following sections.

[^1]: Hands-On Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn and TensorFlow, Aurélien Géron, O’Reilly, 2017

!include end_to_end_ml.md

\newpage
!include supervised_learning.md

